---

title: Encuentros
subtitle: An augmented documentary about home and personal borders
date: Nov. 2020
credits: "Directed/Produced\nby\nPatricia Mascarell & Daniel Vera"
imagesPath: assets/encuentros
hero: ../projects/assets/encuentros/hero.gif
links: ['https://encuentrosdocumentaries.com/']
video: https://vimeo.com/530390220
tags: ['Photogrammetry', 'Augmented Documentary', 'Immersive spaces', 'Interactive experience']
types: ['Virtual Architecture', 'Research']
logo: NFT_Enc.glb
slug: encuentros
position: [-20, 0, -3]
background: [darkgrey, grey, white, black]
description: When thinking about home, rather often the first image that comes to mind is a physical space. However, even though that first thought is probably based on the need of a context, the thoughts quickly turn into memories that go beyond the strict materiality of the house. That is, really, where the combination of house and identity turn into what we usually define as home. Home is the virtual house, the time-based abstract layer generated by the inhabitant as a response to the urgency of translating their own identity into space.

---

Following the distinction between materiality of the house and immateriality of the home, the project consists of two parts connected using augmentation: an installation and a documentary.

In the online show, we followed a multi-layered information structure. The three videos of the documentary, one per character, will be placed on the same layer and be played simultaneously. A slider will allow you to pan between the characters, deciding which story to choose. However, while listening to one you are still faced with the fact that you are not listening to the others. The intention with the interactive triptych is to remind us the fact that, in reality, if you want to listen to everybody and understand the different paths in our surroundings, you need to invest more time. While you listen to somebody, you are always choosing not to listen to somebody else’s story, and this is specially relevant in a reduced social nucleus as it is the home. Behind the documentary there is a scene, developed in three.js, containing point clouds of the spaces the characters are referring to in their story lines. They also respond to the character slider, highlighting the spaces of the character that is prioritized by the user. The scene can be navigated, however the point cloud is much easier to understand from a certain distance, always reminding the user that even if invited to the experience, there is a limit to their observation. The models of the spaces evolve at the rhythm of the narration, until they reach the communal and they all collapse in the same space.

As opposed to the concept of VR being an empathy machine, we see the use of augmentation in combination with this documentary as an observation machine. It was not our main goal to make the audience feel empathy, rather to make them feel invited to observe from a distance and reflect on the complexity of what they are observing.
